Budget Your Trip
Login
Sign Up
Blog
Plan a Trip
About
Travel Budget for
Doha
Visit Doha on a Budget or Travel in Style
Doha,Baladiyat ad Dawhah,Qatar
Middle East / Qatar /
Doha Costs
Doha Accommodation  
Guides & Activities  
Qatar Cities & Regions 
Jump to  



In this Doha travel cost guide, we'll cover everything you need to know to plan your travel budget and have an amazing trip without spending too much. This Doha trip cost calculator includes average trip costs from thousands of previous travelers, along with typical hotel prices, food and dining costs, entertainment and sightseeing prices, and information about transportation. Doha is an exciting destination known for its beauty, culture, food, and exciting activities, and you don't want to miss out on anything because you did't plan your budget.

How much does it cost to travel to Doha?

A typical traveler spends $245 (QAR890) per day on a trip to Doha. This is the average daily price for a vacation in Doha based on the expenses of other visitors.

Past travelers have spent, on average for one day:

$106 (QAR387) on meals
$23 (QAR84) on local transportation
$239 (QAR869) on hotels

A one-week trip to Doha for two people costs, on average, $3,424 (QAR12,460). This includes accommodation, food, local transportation, and sightseeing.

All of these average travel prices have been collected from thousands of other travelers to help you plan your own travel budget.

Travel Style:
All
Budget (Cheap)
Mid-Range
Luxury (High-End)
Average Daily Cost
Per person, per day
$245
QAR890
One Week
Per person
$1,712
QAR6,230
2 Weeks
Per person
$3,424
QAR12,460
One Month
Per person
$7,336
QAR26,700
One Week
For a couple
$3,424
QAR12,460
2 Weeks
For a couple
$6,847
QAR24,920
One Month
For a couple
$14,672
QAR53,400
This data comes from the travel budgets of real travelers - How it works. Put these numbers on your website.
Costs by category are below, keep reading for more information.



How much does a one week, two week, or one month trip to Doha cost?

A one week trip to Doha usually costs around $1,712 (QAR6,230) for one person and $3,424 (QAR12,460) for two people. This includes accommodation, food, local transportation, and sightseeing.

A two week trip to Doha on average costs around $3,424 (QAR12,460) for one person and $6,847 (QAR24,920) for two people. This cost includes accommodation, food, local transportation, and sightseeing.

Please note, prices can vary based on your travel style, speed, and other variables. If you're traveling as a family of three or four people, the price per person often goes down because kid's tickets are cheaper and hotel rooms can be shared. If you travel slower over a longer period of time then your daily budget will also go down. Two people traveling together for one month in Doha will often have a lower daily budget per person than one person traveling alone for one week.

A one month trip to Doha on average costs around $7,336 (QAR26,700) for one person and $14,672 (QAR53,400) for two people. The more places you visit, the higher the daily price will become due to increased transportation costs.



Is Doha expensive to visit?

In Doha, budget travelers spend $108 (QAR394) per day on average, mid-range travelers spend $244 (QAR890) per day, and luxury travelers spend around $462 (QAR1,683) per day. These costs are calculated from the reported expenses of previous travelers to Doha.

Doha is a quaint locale that appeals to a variety of visitors, each with different travel styles, spending patterns, and budget needs. Budget-conscious travelers will find suitable hotel options, but there are also high-end hotels for those seeking luxury, plus mid-range accommodations for families or couples.

While Doha can be quite expensive if you let it be, there are ways to lower your spending, such as looking for discounts and coupons.

Within the Middle East, Doha is a very expensive destination compared to other places. It is in the top 10% of cities in the Middle East for its travel costs. There are only a few cities as expensive as Doha in the region, such as Eilat or Dubai.

For more details, and to find out if it's within your travel budget, see Is Doha Expensive?

The average Doha trip cost is broken down by category here for independent travelers. All of these Doha travel prices are calculated from the budgets of real travelers. Also, you can see more details at How much does a trip to Doha cost?

The hotel prices in Doha might surprise you. Some places charge much more for added luxury and amenities, especially during peak season. In the off-season, a room averages $95, but during peak season, expect to pay around $177. Prices vary from $54 to $369, but hostels are often cheaper. Booking in advance and traveling during the low season can help save you money.

Calculated from travelers like you

The average price paid in Doha for two people for a typical double-occupancy hotel room is $239 (QAR869). For one person sharing a room, the average price paid for a hotel room is $119 (QAR435) per night. These costs are from the reported spending of actual travelers.




Looking for a hotel in Doha? Prices vary by location, date, season, and the level of luxury. See below for options.

 Hotels

Find the best hotel for your travel style.

Family-Friendly
Pet-Friendly
With a Pool
With a Kitchen

Kayak helps you find the best prices for hotels, flights, and rental cars for destinations around the world.





The average hotel room price in Doha based on data provided by Kayak for actual hotel rooms is $95 in the low season and $177 in the peak season. Below are the average prices for each budget category. (Prices in U.S. Dollars, before taxes & fees.)

Average: $95 - $177
Budget: $54 - $101
Mid-Range: $106 - $198
Luxury: $198 - $369

The most affordable highest rated hotels in Doha include:

21 High Street Residence By The Torch starting at $227
Staybridge Suites Doha Lusail By IHG starting at $82
West Walk Retaj Hotel starting at $58
Riviera Rayhaan by Rotana Doha starting at $46
Embassy Suites by Hilton Doha Old Town starting at $68

Choosing to travel in the shoulder or low season and avoiding will help you save on lodging costs and escape the tourist rush.






Calculated from travelers like you

Doha International Airport is the main point of entry for Qatar, and is becoming a very important waypoint in the Persian Gulf Region. Qatar Airways connects the city with destinations in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, Indian Sub-continent, North America, and South America. Several car rental agencies are available at the airport, though it is recommended to have a vehicle reserved before landing.

If you are traveling by car, Saudi Arabia is the only country that borders the country.

Once in Doha, most people navigate by landmarks as most businesses don't use street numbers or street names in their addresses. Public buses are available throughout the city, as are taxis though their demand often makes it difficult to catch one.

A few of the typical transportation options and hotel transfers include:

Doha Mangrove Kayaking Al Thakira & Purple Island With Transfer for $66 details
Doha, Qatar : Private Airport Transfer 24/7 for $70 details
Hamad Airport Transfer Service – 24/7 Door-to-Door Transport for $98 details





How much does it cost to go to Doha? Naturally, it depends on the dates. We recommend Kayak because they can find the best deals across all airlines.


The price of renting a car in Doha will depends on dates, the type of car, the location, and your age. We recommend Kayak because they can find the best deals across all car rental companies.





Food is a major attraction for travelers, so make sure you don't miss out on the local culinary delights.

Calculated from travelers like you

When dining out, the average daily cost for food in Doha is around $106 (QAR387) per person, with previous travelers spending from $47 to $194. Generally, breakfast and lunch cost less than dinner, but this will depend on the type of restaurant and what you order.

Typical meal prices in Doha are as follows:

Breakfast: $11 to $32
Lunch: $16 to $42
Dinner: $32 to $74
Coffee: $8
Fast Food or Street Food: $16

The cuisine to be found in Doha is surprisingly diverse. Qatari fare is made up of traditional Arab and Levantine cooking, and is also largely influenced by Iranian and Indian food. While Middle Eastern fare is also common, other options available include Indian, Thai, Chinese, Italian, and Korean. Western fare is another option with American chains like McDonald's, KFC, Hardee's, Arby's, Burger King, Dairy Queen, Pizza Hut, TGI Friday's Applebee's, Chili's, Fuddruckers, Bennigan's, Ponderosa Steakhouse, Red Lobster, and Starbucks.

There are some good dining options just outside Souq Waqif and inside Villaggio Mall, and if you want to try authentic Middle Eastern fare, there are some good cheap options in Turkey Central on Al-Mirghab Street. Traditional dishes include things like:

Machbus: the national dish of Qatar, it is a meal consisting of rice, meat, and vegetables (onions and tomatoes).

Kabsa: similar to Machbus, the dish consists of rice, meat, and vegetables mixed with spices. It is also similar to biryani or pilaf.

Balaleet: Noodles cooked with sugar, cinnamon, saffron, and cardamom, often with an omelet on top.

Ghuzi: Whole roast lamb served over nutty rice. Also called Shuwaa.

Om ali: Bread and rice pudding

Sago: Sweet gelatin pudding spiced with saffron and cardamom

Mehalabiya: Rose water and pistachio pudding

Many hotels include breakfast in their price, while some add it on as an extra charge. The price and quality can vary depending on the hotel. Knowing ahead of time can help you decide if you need to spend even more money. Maybe it's worth your money for the delicious buffet at the hotel. Or, perhaps you should just go to a nearby bakery or cafe that's much cheaper.

Bring a reusable water bottle instead of purchasing drinks all the time. It's also a great way to help the environment.

If you're planning to take a tour, make sure you know which meals are included beforehand. You might be on the hook to pay for some of the food yourself which can add to your budget.

If you want to experience the culture in Doha, a food tour or cooking class is a great way to do it. After all, cuisine is one of the reasons why so many people visit. A few of the best culinary activities here include:

Full Day Desert Safari in Qatar with Lunch/Dinner by sea side for $159 details
Full Day Desert Safari Doha/dinner included for $190 details
Full-Day Desert Safari With Lunch or BBQ Dinner at Camp for $190 details





Calculated from travelers like you

The attractions of the city represent a full range of architecture, museums, markets, history, and culture. The Museum of Islamic Art museum is one such sight, featuring the full scope of Islamic art from three continents over 1,400 years. With architecture inspired by classic Islamic elements, the museum has become an iconic feature of the Doha skyline. It is host to regular special exhibitions, events, lectures, and activities. Then there is Souq Waqif, a traditional old marketplace of Qatar, selling unique goods like spices, textiles, and even live falcons. It is a great place to pick up souvenirs, and bargaining is highly recommended.

Another unique feature of the city is The Pearl Qatar, a manmade island connected to the city of Doha by a bridge. This is where most of the upscale resorts are located with a harbor full of cruise boats and a luxury neighborhood of fine dining and designer stores. And finally there is Villaggio Mall, one of Qatar's newest malls designed to look like Venice in its architecture and canal-ways. It is home to a variety of stores-casual, western, and luxury-plus a food court, restaurants, gondola rides, and an ice skating rink.

Most of Doha's activities consist of shopping and exploring markets and malls, dining, sight-seeing, museum-going, and enjoying Qatar's nightlife. And being a city by the sea, it has also become a popular destination for watersports and beach-going. Kite-surfing is increasingly popular for western visitors, while locals can often be seen driving jet-skis from beach to beach. Sailing, cruising, diving, scuba, and beach sports like volleyball and cricket are also very common.

Local tours that last a few hours can be a great way to explore Doha. Prices vary by the type of activity or tour, the dates, and the size of the group. Here are a few of the highest rated tours by previous visitors:

City Tour and Desert Safari with Camel Ride and Sand Boarding for $130 details
Doha Sightseeing Tour with Optional Sunset Dhow Cruise for $45 details
Doha Private City Tour To All Main Attractions With Transport for $51 details





Calculated from travelers like you

Nights out are fun, but limiting your alcohol consumption can help keep your travel costs in check.



Slowing your travel tempo can not only save you money but also let you enjoy the stunning beauty of your surroundings. When you pack each day with activities, costs can rise rapidly. However, a more relaxed pace usually leads to lower expenses and a more enjoyable experience.
Public transportation is quite scarce in Doha. It may be beneficial to arrange a form of transport in advance, like a private car or tour. Keep in mind that this could impact your budget in other ways.
Doha isn't exactly a hotspot for hostels, so if you're expecting to stay in a cheap dorm to save money, you might want to adjust your plans. Instead, find a cheap hotel or apartment rental.
Doha, Qatar

Doha is the capital city of Qatar, modern and rapidly developing with much construction underway. It is home to Doha International Airport, the main point of entry for Qatar, as well as many of the country's best museums and examples of cultural heritage.

As far as neighborhoods go, Doha is home to a mix of atmospheres from traditional Arab sectors, to bustling markets, and upscale waterside resorts. Doha Heritage Village, for example, is based on a traditional Qatari village with opportunities to see weaving, pearl trading, and a traditional boat (dhow), plus the occasional festival and other activities. The city is also home to Souq Waqif, a renovated Arabic market quarter with a maze of corridors to explore. Its shops are divided into sections with shop categories for things like spices, textiles, souvenirs, and even live falcons. And then on the higher end of things, the Pearl-Qatar neighborhood of Doha is the country's manmade island, full of luxury resorts, homes, cruise boats, and designer shopping.

Related:

Looking for a hostel in Delhi or Goa? Heading to Kathmandu or want a party in Tel Aviv?

It's important to set realistic expectations for your travel budget. Many assume they can get by cheaply in Doha, but most people don't enjoy traveling on a very tight budget. Think about how you like to travel, and whether you prefer resorts, hostels, or vacation rentals. Do activities like sightseeing and dining out matter to you? These factors will help shape your travel budget.

You may believe you're traveling on a budget, but unless you're ready to give up some conveniences, you'll likely spend much more than the $108 daily average that backpackers get away with.

Younger budget travelers often stick to this low budget by staying in dorms, eating inexpensive meals, taking public transportation, and focusing on free activities and sights.

For couples or families traveling for enjoyment, opting for a mid-range hotel, dining at popular restaurants, and exploring major museums and attractions with entry fees is likely. Most guests in Doha will want to take in the essential attractions, museums, sights, and landmarks. Remember, many activities do come with costs. So, you should realistically expect your daily budget to be around $244 per person, per day.

In Doha, you'll find a broad range of hotels and vacation rentals. If traveling with companions, you can share accommodations with a partner, friend, or your children, helping to cut costs. Families will want to look for hotels and restaurants that are kid-friendly. Four Points by Sheraton Doha is a fantastic option for families, and Oryx Airport Hotel is also a great pick. Explore more family and couple-oriented hotels in our hotel guide for Doha here.

If you're looking for an all-encompassing vacation filled with luxurious amenities and higher-level service, prepare your budget for around $462 per day. Selecting nicer hotels, savoring meals at award-winning establishments, indulging in lavish adventures, and traveling around the destination with taxis or private drivers will call for a luxury budget. Many luxury travelers also enjoy unique experiences such as Desert Safari with Sandboarding and Inland Sea Private Tour - offered by Viator.

We've been gathering travel costs from tens of thousands of actual travelers since 2010, and we use the data to calculate average daily travel costs for destinations around the world. We also systematically analyze the prices of hotels, hostels, and tours from travel providers such as Kayak, HostelWorld, TourRadar, Viator, and others. This combination of expenses from actual travelers, combined with pricing data from major travel companies, gives us a uniqe insight into the overall cost of travel for thousands of cities in countries around the world. You can see more here: How it Works.




1 Categories averaged on a per-item basis.
2 Categories averaged on a per-day basis.
For example, the Food2 daily average is for all meals for an entire day, while Entertainment1 is for each individual purchase. Thus, the overall daily average cost is not a summation of the individual categories.
Budget Your Trip is all about finding out how much everything costs so that you can travel cheaper and longer. Created by avid travelers Laurie and Bryan, our goal is to help you plan your next trip on the right budget. With average daily travel costs that are calculated from the budgets of real travelers, plus an analysis of hotel and tour prices, you can find out how much money you need to plan your next adventure. We also have plenty of travel advice, accommodation reviews, and activity suggestions.
About BudgetYourTrip.com
Search for Travel Costs
Destination Search


All Countries
Tour Search
Hostels in Qatar

Some of the links on this website are sponsored or affiliate links which help to financially support this site. By clicking the link and making a purchase, we may receive a small commission, but this does not affect the price of your purchase.







