Budget Your Trip
Login
Sign Up
Blog
Plan a Trip
About
Travel Budget for
Mexico City
Visit Mexico City on a Budget or Travel in Style
Mexico City,Distrito Federal,Mexico
North America / Mexico / Central Mexico /
Mexico City Costs
Mexico City Accommodation  
Guides & Activities  
Mexico Cities & Regions 
Popular Cities 
Jump to  



Whether you're planning a quick getaway or a longer vacation, this Mexico City travel cost guide will help you understand the typical costs of a trip. Our Mexico City trip cost calculator is based on average spending from thousands of past travelers, including accommodations, meals, attractions, entertainment, and transportation. Mexico City is a dynamic city known for Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe, Zócalo (Plaza de la Constitución), and Chapultepec Castle (Castillo de Chapultepec), and you don't want to miss out because you didn't plan the right budget. This guide will help you plan the best trip to Mexico City and stay within your ideal travel budget, whether you're exploring the museums, eating the delicious cuisine, or enjoying the nightlife.

How much does it cost to travel to Mexico City?

A typical traveler spends $231 (MX$3,907) per day on a trip to Mexico City. This is the average daily price for a vacation in Mexico City based on the expenses of other visitors.

Past travelers have spent, on average for one day:

$47 (MX$792) on meals
$13 (MX$220) on local transportation
$83 (MX$1,407) on hotels

A one-week trip to Mexico City for two people costs, on average, $3,233 (MX$54,698). This includes accommodation, food, local transportation, and sightseeing.

All of these average travel prices have been collected from thousands of other travelers to help you plan your own travel budget.

Travel Style:
All
Budget (Cheap)
Mid-Range
Luxury (High-End)
Average Daily Cost
Per person, per day
$231
MX$3,907
One Week
Per person
$1,617
MX$27,349
2 Weeks
Per person
$3,233
MX$54,698
One Month
Per person
$6,928
MX$117,210
One Week
For a couple
$3,233
MX$54,698
2 Weeks
For a couple
$6,467
MX$109,396
One Month
For a couple
$13,857
MX$234,420
This data comes from the travel budgets of real travelers - How it works. Put these numbers on your website.
Costs by category are below, keep reading for more information.




A one week trip to Mexico City usually costs around $1,617 (MX$27,349) for one person and $3,233 (MX$54,698) for two people. This includes accommodation, food, local transportation, and sightseeing.

A two week trip to Mexico City on average costs around $3,233 (MX$54,698) for one person and $6,467 (MX$109,396) for two people. This cost includes accommodation, food, local transportation, and sightseeing.

Please note, prices can vary based on your travel style, speed, and other variables. If you're traveling as a family of three or four people, the price per person often goes down because kid's tickets are cheaper and hotel rooms can be shared. If you travel slower over a longer period of time then your daily budget will also go down. Two people traveling together for one month in Mexico City will often have a lower daily budget per person than one person traveling alone for one week.

A one month trip to Mexico City on average costs around $6,928 (MX$117,210) for one person and $13,857 (MX$234,420) for two people. The more places you visit, the higher the daily price will become due to increased transportation costs.




In Mexico City, budget travelers spend $81 (MX$1,375) per day on average, mid-range travelers spend $231 (MX$3,907) per day, and luxury travelers spend around $755 (MX$12,780) per day. These costs are calculated from the reported expenses of previous travelers to Mexico City.

Mexico City is a large and exciting city where activities abound. You'll meet travelers with all kinds of budgets and styles, each finding their own way to enjoy this fantastic spot. Visitors can find a range of options for accommodation from high-end luxury hotels to mid-range places to budget-friendly hostels.

While Mexico City can be quite expensive if you let it be, there are ways to lower your spending, such as eating at less expensive restaurants and taking public transit.

Within North America, which is known to be an expensive region, Mexico City is a moderately priced destination compared to other places. The overall cost of travel here is fair for the region and comparable to Boulder or Kauai.

For more details, and to find out if it's within your travel budget, see Is Mexico City Expensive?

The average Mexico City trip cost is broken down by category here for independent travelers. All of these Mexico City travel prices are calculated from the budgets of real travelers. Also, you can see more details at How much does a trip to Mexico City cost?

In Mexico City, hotel prices can be quite surprising. Higher-end hotels offer more amenities and luxury, but come at a higher price tag, especially during the peak winter season. Off-season prices average around $99, but in peak season, they can average around $185. Prices generally range from $44 to $466, and hostels remain the cheaper option. Booking early or traveling during the low season can save you money, and you might find special deals along the way.

Calculated from travelers like you

The average price paid in Mexico City for two people for a typical double-occupancy hotel room is $83 (MX$1,407). For one person sharing a room, the average price paid for a hotel room is $42 (MX$703) per night. These costs are from the reported spending of actual travelers.




Looking for a hotel in Mexico City? Prices vary by location, date, season, and the level of luxury. See below for options.

 Hotels

Find the best hotel for your travel style.

Family-Friendly
Pet-Friendly
With a Pool
With a Kitchen

Kayak helps you find the best prices for hotels, flights, and rental cars for destinations around the world.





The average hotel room price in Mexico City based on data provided by Kayak for actual hotel rooms is $99 in the low season and $185 in the peak season. Below are the average prices for each budget category. (Prices in U.S. Dollars, before taxes & fees.)

Average: $99 - $185
Budget: $44 - $82
Mid-Range: $101 - $188
Luxury: $250 - $466

The most affordable highest rated hotels in Mexico City include:

Historico Central Hotel starting at $132
Casa Cleo Boutique Stays by Viadora starting at $203
Hotel Zocalo Central starting at $168
Galeria Plaza San Jeronimo starting at $121
Hacienda Peña Pobre starting at $96

In the bustling city of Mexico City, you'll find a range of accommodations. You can choose from hostels like Suites DF Hostel, vacation rentals, or high-end hotels. Expect to pay more if you want to stay close to the city center, but you'll benefit from easy access to public transportation and popular attractions.

Mexico City offers a great public transit system, so staying farther from the city might save you on accommodation, though the additional cost and time of commuting can add up.

As a family-friendly city, Mexico City is perfect for traveling with kids, so you may want to find an apartment with more room. Rooms in a big city like this can be small and feel a little cramped.

With many people staying up to a week in Mexico City, it might be worth booking a vacation rental with a kitchen if you're staying longer, so you can prepare your own food.

By avoiding the peak winter season and traveling during the low or shoulder seasons, you will be able to save on accommodation and avoid heavy tourist crowds.

The city's old town is a popular spot for tourists. Although hotels in this area might be more expensive, they often come with plenty of character and easy access to nearby attractions.






In a large city like Mexico City, you'll need to think about how to get around. Fortunately, the city has a solid public transit system. The city has a complex and comprehensive public transit system that includes a metro, metrobus, and local buses. For a cost-effective option, stick to public transit, but you can also easily grab a taxi or rideshare when needed.

Unfortunately, many areas of the city do not support walking. While you can walk within many neighborhoods, such as the historic city center, it's impossible to walk between neighborhoods and in many parts of the city.

Public Transit:   (great)
Walkability:       (moderate)

Calculated from travelers like you

Mexico City can be overwhelming to navigate. Driving is not a realistic option for tourists and it is not recommended that you attempt it. Public transportation options include a metro system that is generally good as well as a bus system and an electric trolley bus system. There are also plenty of private buses that cover routes throughout the city.

The metro system is one of the largest and most used systems in the world. There are 12 lines with trains the run every few minutes. Convenient lines for tourists include Line 1 (pink) that goes through Centro Historico, the Chapultepec Forest, Condesa and Roma neighborhoods, and the Northwest Bus Station. Line 2 (blue) also goes through Centro Historico to the South Bus Station. Line 7 (orange), Line 9 (brown), and Line 3 (green) also hit several tourist attractions.

For many visitors, taxis are the easiest option. Make sure you only accept rides from official taxis, which have a red box with the word "TAXI" in the center lower area of the license plate.

If you'll be frequently using public transit, consider investing in multi-day transit passes to save some cash.

Stay vigilant against pickpockets on the buses and trains, and don't let your guard down in the stations. Mexico City is quite a big city.

A few of the typical hotel transfers and transportation services include:

Airport Transfer to Hotel in Mexico City for $60 details
Private Transfer From AIFA Felipe Ángeles Int Airport to Downtown for $95 details
Arrival Transfer: Mexico Airport MEX to Mexico by Luxury SUV for $100 details





How much does it cost to go to Mexico City? Naturally, it depends on the dates. We recommend Kayak because they can find the best deals across all airlines.


The price of renting a car in Mexico City will depends on dates, the type of car, the location, and your age. We recommend Kayak because they can find the best deals across all car rental companies.





The numbers below highlight common transportation expenses in Mexico City, gathered from actual travelers. These prices give a good estimate of what you're likely to spend while getting around the city. However, your personal costs will depend on your travel style, since taxis and hired cars tend to be much pricier than public transportation.






The dining in Mexico City is truly world-class, and you should definitely experience it. Be sure to enjoy meals at local restaurants and sample some unique offerings. The city food scene is as diverse as the population itself. There are countless ways to experience the amazing street food, but there are also world class chefs working in award winning restaurants. Make sure you try the chilaquiles, tacos al pastor, and chiles en nogada.

Calculated from travelers like you

When dining out, the average daily cost for food in Mexico City is around $47 (MX$792) per person, with previous travelers spending from $17 to $138. Generally, breakfast and lunch cost less than dinner, but this will depend on the type of restaurant and what you order.

Typical meal prices in Mexico City are as follows:

Breakfast: $5 to $14
Lunch: $7 to $19
Dinner: $14 to $33
Coffee: $4
Fast Food or Street Food: $7

Mexico is a large and diverse city and its restaurant scene can be quite diverse. In addition to the typical Mexican fare which you can find everywhere, there are international restaurants with cuisine from Poland, China, Japan, France, Italy, and Argentina among many others.

The most popular restaurant neighborhoods are found in Polanco, Condesa and Roma, Centro, Zona Rosa, and along Avenida Insurgentes from Viaducto to Copilco. There is also a growing scene in Santa Fe.

To save money, consider dining at nicer restaurants during lunch instead of dinner. Many establishments in tourist districts or business areas feature lunch specials or a 'menu of the day.' These are often just more affordable and smaller versions of their dinner selections. With a bit of searching, you could enjoy a complete multi-course gourmet meal at a reasonable price. Then, just have a light dinner.

If you're traveling with kids, search for restaurants that offer a children's menu. This can save you a lot of money since these dishes are usually cheaper. Keep in mind that some places may not list their kids' options, so make sure to ask the server.

Many establishments feature breakfast in their pricing, although some tack it on as an added expense. The price and quality can fluctuate depending on the hotel. Being aware of this beforehand helps you gauge if you'll need extra cash. The hotel buffet might be a delicious choice, or you could save some cash by heading to a nearby bakery or cafe.

Stay hydrated with a water bottle instead of purchasing drinks everywhere. It's also great for the environment.

Planning a tour? Be sure to confirm in advance which meals are provided. You could find yourself footing the bill for some meals, which can affect your budget.

If you're looking to experience the culinary culture in Mexico City, taking a food tour or cooking class is a terrific way to do it. After all, cuisine is one of the reasons why so many people visit. Some of the best food-related activities here include:

Coyoacan Food Tour for $110 details
Polanco Food Tour: 5 Tastings, Tacos, Mezcal & Churros for $49 details
Mexico City : Street Food to Home Cooking Food Tour for $115 details





Below are some standard food costs in Mexico City, gathered from real travelers. These prices should give you a general idea of what you can expect to spend on dining and meals. Keep in mind, though, that your own costs may differ depending on your taste in restaurants, travel habits, and menu choices.






The allure of Mexico City is undeniable, especially since it offers museums and attractions, food, nightlife, and family-friendly activities.

Calculated from travelers like you

Some of the most popular sights include:

Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe (Free)
Zócalo (Plaza de la Constitución) (Free)
Chapultepec Castle (Castillo de Chapultepec) for MXN$80
National Museum of Anthropology (Museo Nacional de Antropología) for $85 MXN
Palacio de Bellas Artes for $100 MXN
Frida Kahlo Museum (Casa Azul) for $250 MXN
Coyoacán Historic Center (Free)
Diego Rivera Murals at Secretaría de Educación Pública for $70 MXN
Alameda Central (Free)
Museo Soumaya (Free)
Xochimilco Canals for $500 MXN
Torre Latinoamericana for $150 MXN
Palacio Nacional (Free)

Many of the city's major sights and landmarks are found in the downtown area. This part of the city dates back to the pre-Columbian 12th century, so there are countless historical buildings. Popular landmarks in Mexico City include Plaza de la Constitucion, La Catedral, Angel de la Independencia, Basilica de Guadalupe, Ciudad Universitaria, Coyoacan, and Plaza Garibaldi-Mariachi.

Popular parks in the city include Chapultepec Park and Zoo, Xochimilco, Parque Mexico and Parque Espana, and Viveros de Coyoacan.

Popular museums include the National Museum of Anthropology, Plaza de las Tres Culturas, the Museum of Modern Art, Dolores Olmedo Museum, the Fine Arts Palace Museum, Rufino Tamayo Museum, and Jose Luis Cuevas Museum, among many others.

There are countless activities that you can enjoy while you're in Mexico City. Many of them are quite affordable, especially if you're backpacking through Mexico. Sporting events include soccer or baseball games, both of which are thrilling and adrenaline filled. Estadio Azteca is the biggest soccer stadium in the world and was built for the 1968 Olympic Games. It seats 129,300 people and is home to Club America, which is one of the most famous soccer clubs in Mexico. Other stadiums and arenas around town include Estadio Olimpico de Ciudad Universitaria, Foro Sol, Palacio de los Deportes, Arena Ciudad de Mexico, and Estadio Azul.

There are several amusement parks in the city as well including Six Flags Mexico and La Feria de Chapultepec. Seasonal festivals include Independence Day "Yell", the Independence Parade, the Day of the Dead, and Wise Men's Day.

Museums and Attractions:
Mexico City is celebrated for its prestigious museums and historical landmarks. The city is filled with historic buildings, fascinating museums, and interesting landmarks. At the heart of the city is Zócalo, where the country's constitution was signed. Nearby you'll find the National Palace, the Metropolitan Cathedral, and the Templo Mayor. Other interesting museums in the city include the National Museum of Anthropology, the Palace of Fine Arts, and the National History Museum.

Shopping:
Visiting this shopping destination is an experience you can't afford to miss. The city has everything from open-air bazaars (tianguis) to modern shopping malls. There are international brands as well as local art galleries, handicrafts, and retail outlets.

A nice way to explore destinations in Mexico City is with local tours that last just a few hours. This way you can see as much as possible in an efficient way with knowledgable guides. Prices vary by the type of activity or tour, the dates, and the size of the group. Here are a few of the highest rated tours by previous visitors:

Teotihuacán: Private Tour from Mexico City for $145 details
Private tour with Archaeologist at National Anthropology Museum for $98 details
Teotihuacan Sunrise Tour from Mexico City for $90 details





The nightlife in Mexico City is top-notch, making it a must-visit destination for partygoers from around the world. It's a huge city, so of course there's no shortage of diverse nightlife activities. Some of the most popular neighborhoods for nightlife include the downtown, La Condesa, and Colonia Juárez. For upscale clubs head to Polanco and for trendy and eclectic venues check out Roma.

Calculated from travelers like you

Nights out are fun, but limiting your alcohol consumption can help keep your travel costs in check.

Stay sharp if you're out at night and enjoying a few drinks. You might attract pickpockets or worse, so stay close to friends you trust and avoid being alone.

Nightlife activities and tasting tours are popular in Mexico City. A few favorites from other travelers include:

Make Your Own Tequila or Mezcal with Distillery and Cocktails for $97 details
Full Day Harvest Season Wine Tour & Grape Stomping Tequisquiapan for $136 details
The Mexico City Pub Crawl: A real chilango night for $33 details




Save some cash by participating in free sights and activities. A few of the best include:
Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe
Zócalo (Plaza de la Constitución)
Coyoacán Historic Center
Alameda Central
Museo Soumaya
Palacio Nacional
Peak season in winter often means inflated prices and a busy city. You can save some money and skip the crowds by opting for the shoulder or low seasons for your visit.
Mexico City is expansive, which means you can usually find different price points for hotels, food, and entertainment. To save some money, look for the best deals, book ahead, and explore free options.
Adopting a slower travel pace can lead to significant savings, giving you the chance to appreciate the area's beauty. If your schedule is packed with activities, your expenses can add up quickly. Conversely, slowing down often leads to a more enjoyable experience and less money spent overall.
Going on a trip with little ones? You'll likely want a private vehicle or taxi. It can be much simpler to dodge the challenges of public transport, but keep in mind that it might cost a bit more.

We're asking our community members and registered users to contribute their experiences about Mexico City.

What makes Mexico City a budget-friendly destination? Or not?

We found a pretty cheap hotel that was still somewhat nice, so that made out budget go further. The local restaurants here are also terrific, and much less than in the more touristy areas of the country. Make sure you check out the street food options because they are so cheap but delicious and filling, too.

bryce_051 - Jul 11 2023
Best Hostels for Solo Travellers, Female Travellers, or Groups in Mexico City
Veracruz
Guadalajara
Merida
Acapulco de Juarez
Cancun
Mexico City

Mexico City is one of the largest and most populated cities in the world. There are an estimated 26 million people living in the greater Mexico City metropolitan area. The area is about 60 kilometers by 40 kilometers and is surrounded by tall mountains and volcanoes on three sides. Mexico City proper has about 8.8 million people and is the capital of the country. More than a third of the country's economy is based here, making it the wealthiest city in all of Latin America.

The city's climate can be divided into two seasons. The dry season is between November and April and the rainy season is between May and October. The spring months are usually warm and the summer months have frequent rain, particularly in the afternoons. The winter months can be quite cool with temperatures dropping to freezing at night or in the early morning.

Mexico City is divided into many districts, some of which are more influential than others. Centro Historico is the original district of Mexico City. It includes Zocalo and Plaza de la Constitucion and has many colonial buildings of importance. Polanco is one of the wealthier residential neighborhoods that also has many embassies and some high end shopping. Zona Rosa has much of the city's entertainment, but it is also a business district. Many museums as well as much of the city's culture can be found in Coyoacan. Condesa and Roma have many of the area's trendy restaurants and clubs, as does the recently gentrified area known as San Angel.

Looking for a party hostel in Mexico? Heading to San Diego or LA?

Having realistic expectations for your travel expenses is important. While many assume they can visit Mexico City on a tight budget, the truth is that most people don't enjoy traveling that way. Think about what you prioritize on vacation. Do you prefer staying in resorts or hostels? Do you love exploring sights and attractions, or dining out? Your preferences will directly impact your budget and travel plans.

You might think you're a budget traveler, but unless you're willing to sacrifice many comforts, expect to spend a lot more than the average of $81 per day that backpackers typically manage.

Younger budget travelers sometimes stick to a shoestring budget, which usually means staying in hostel dorms, eating at budget restaurants or fast food, relying on public transportation or walking, and limiting activities to free attractions.

Mexico City is home to plenty of hostels, including Suites DF Hostel, Viajero CDMX Centro Hostel, and Hostel Mundo Joven Catedral. In hostels like these, you can snag budget-friendly dorm beds and enjoy a social environment, but be prepared for basic amenities. The city also offers superb public transit, making it easier for budget travelers to avoid the high costs of taxis and Ubers. Visitors to Mexico City often find food to be a highlight, but budget travelers may only indulge in street food or cook their own meals in hostels, missing some of the area's best culinary experiences.

If you're a family or couple enjoying a vacation, you'll probably want to stay in a mid-range hotel, eat at well-liked restaurants, and check out significant museums and attractions that charge entry fees. When visiting Mexico City, you'll want to see Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe, Zócalo (Plaza de la Constitución), or Chapultepec Castle (Castillo de Chapultepec). Most activities aren't free. So, you should realistically expect your daily budget to be around $231 per person, per day.

In Mexico City, you'll find a broad range of hotels and vacation rentals. If traveling with companions, you can share accommodations with a partner, friend, or your children, helping to cut costs. Families will want to look for hotels and restaurants that are kid-friendly. Historico Central Hotel is a fantastic option for families, and Hotel Zocalo Central is also a great pick. Explore more family and couple-oriented hotels in our hotel guide for Mexico City here.

If you envision a trip that covers everything with high-end amenities and top-tier service, be ready for a daily expense near $755. Enjoying nicer hotels, dining at acclaimed restaurants, participating in extravagant activities, and using taxis or private drivers to navigate the city will require a premium budget. Many luxury travelers also enjoy unique experiences such as Mexico City Historic Centre Private Food Tour with 7+ Tastings - offered by Viator.

Mazatlan
Oaxaca de Juarez
Ensenada
Puerto Vallarta
La Paz
San Cristobal de Las Casas

We've been gathering travel costs from tens of thousands of actual travelers since 2010, and we use the data to calculate average daily travel costs for destinations around the world. We also systematically analyze the prices of hotels, hostels, and tours from travel providers such as Kayak, HostelWorld, TourRadar, Viator, and others. This combination of expenses from actual travelers, combined with pricing data from major travel companies, gives us a uniqe insight into the overall cost of travel for thousands of cities in countries around the world. You can see more here: How it Works.

Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Reddit
Email
Share



1 Categories averaged on a per-item basis.
2 Categories averaged on a per-day basis.
For example, the Food2 daily average is for all meals for an entire day, while Entertainment1 is for each individual purchase. Thus, the overall daily average cost is not a summation of the individual categories.
Budget Your Trip is all about finding out how much everything costs so that you can travel cheaper and longer. Created by avid travelers Laurie and Bryan, our goal is to help you plan your next trip on the right budget. With average daily travel costs that are calculated from the budgets of real travelers, plus an analysis of hotel and tour prices, you can find out how much money you need to plan your next adventure. We also have plenty of travel advice, accommodation reviews, and activity suggestions.
About BudgetYourTrip.com
Search for Travel Costs
Destination Search


All Countries
Tour Search
Hostels in Mexico
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Reddit
Email
Share

Some of the links on this website are sponsored or affiliate links which help to financially support this site. By clicking the link and making a purchase, we may receive a small commission, but this does not affect the price of your purchase.







